Finish What's New in EF7 (#4076)
dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/whatsnew.md

- The iterator stops traversing from a given node when the callback delegate returns `false`. This example keeps track of visited entities and returns `false` when the entity has already been visited. This prevents infinite loops resulting from cycles in the graph.
- The `EntityEntryGraphNode<TState>` object allows state to be passed around without capturing it into the delegate.
- For every node visited other than the first, the node it was discovered from and the navigation is was discovered via are passed to the callback.

## Model building enhancements

EF7 contains a variety of small improvements in model building.

> [!TIP]
> The code for samples in this section comes from [ModelBuildingSample.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/tree/main/samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore7/ModelBuildingSample.cs).

### Indexes can be ascending or descending

By default, EF Core creates ascending indexes. EF7 also supports creation of descending indexes. For example:

```csharp

>             modelBuilder

Reviewer: Unindent? (here and below)

                .Entity<Post>()
                .HasIndex(post => post.Title)

>                 .IsDescending();

Reviewer: The main reason to use descending indexes IIRC is for composite indexes, since a single-column index can be traversed either way anyway; maybe it's good to mention that and have the basic example be composite?

Author: I did not realize this! Thanks!

Reviewer: (Should probably confirm this across database at some point! But it makes sense...)

This results in the following SQL when using SQL Server:

```sql
CREATE INDEX [IX_Blogs_Name_Owner] ON [Blogs] ([Name], [Owner] DESC);
```

### Mapping attribute for composite keys

EF7 introduces a new mapping attribute (aka "data annotation") for specifying the primary key property or properties of any entity type. Unlike <xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.KeyAttribute?displayProperty=nameWithType>, [PrimaryKeyAttribute](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/blob/main/src/EFCore.Abstractions/PrimaryKeyAttribute.cs) is placed on the entity type class rather than on the key property. For example:

```csharp
    [PrimaryKey(nameof(PostKey))]
    public class Post
    {
        public int PostKey { get; set; }
    }
```

This makes it a natural fit for defining composite keys:

<!--
    [PrimaryKey(nameof(PostId), nameof(CommentId))]
    public class Comment
    {
        public int PostId { get; set; }
        public int CommentId { get; set; }
    }
-->
[!code-csharp[CompositePrimaryKey](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore7/ModelBuildingSample.cs?name=CompositePrimaryKey)]

> Defining the index on the class also means it can be used to specify private properties or fields as keys, even though these would usually be ignored when building the EF model. For example:

Reviewer: Huh, didn't know we didn't support [Key] on private properties/fields... Any specific reason for that?

Author: We do...but only if the member is already mapped. It won't cause it to be mapped.

Reviewer: Should we consider enabling this (i.e. mapping the member because it has [Key] on it)? Or would that potentially map something unwanted (because [Key] is being used for some other non-EF framework)?

Author: Yes, and yes. :-D I made a note to file an issue; it's something I have been thinking about for a while, and something that Diego had ideas on.

```csharp
[PrimaryKey(nameof(_id))]
public class Tag
{
    private readonly int _id;
}
```

### `DeleteBehavior` mapping attribute

> EF7 introduces a mapping attribute (aka "data annotation") to specify the <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior> for a relationship. For example, [required relationships](xref:core/modeling/relationships) are created with <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior.Cascade?displayProperty=nameWithType> by default. This can be changed to <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior.NoAction?displayProperty=nameWithType> by default using [DeleteBehaviorAttribute](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/blob/main/src/EFCore.Abstractions/DeleteBehaviorAttribute.cs):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EF7 introduces a mapping attribute (aka "data annotation") to specify the <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior> for a relationship. For example, [required relationships](xref:core/modeling/relationships) are created with <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior.Cascade?displayProperty=nameWithType> by default. This can be changed to <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DeleteBehavior.NoAction?displayProperty=nameWithType> by default using [DeleteBehavior](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/blob/main/src/EFCore.Abstractions/DeleteBehaviorAttribute.cs):
```

The guarded key types shown here both wrap `int` key values, which means integer values will be used in the mapped database tables. This is achieved by defining [value converters](xref:core/modeling/value-conversions) for the types:

<!--
        protected override void ConfigureConventions(ModelConfigurationBuilder configurationBuilder)
        {
            configurationBuilder.Properties<ProductId>().HaveConversion<ProductIdConverter>();
            configurationBuilder.Properties<CategoryId>().HaveConversion<CategoryIdConverter>();
        }

        private class ProductIdConverter : ValueConverter<ProductId, int>
        {
            public ProductIdConverter()
                : base(v => v.Value, v => new(v))
            {
            }
        }

        private class CategoryIdConverter : ValueConverter<CategoryId, int>
        {
            public CategoryIdConverter()
                : base(v => v.Value, v => new(v))
            {
            }
        }
-->
[!code-csharp[KeyConverters](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore7/ValueGenerationSample.cs?name=KeyConverters)]

> [!NOTE]

> > The code here uses `struct` types. This means they have appropriate value-type semantics for use as keys. If `class` types are used instead, then they will need to either override equality semantics or also specify a [value comparer](xref:core/modeling/value-comparers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The code here uses `struct` types. This means they have appropriate value-type semantics for use as keys. If `class` types are used instead, then they need to either override equality semantics or also specify a [value comparer](xref:core/modeling/value-comparers).
```

                .UseSequence("ProductsSequence", "northwind");
-->
[!code-csharp[Sequence](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore7/ValueGenerationSample.cs?name=Sequence)]

Further configuration of the sequence is formed by configuring it explicitly in the model. For example:

<!--
            modelBuilder
                .HasSequence<int>("ProductsSequence", "northwind")
                .StartsAt(1000)
                .IncrementsBy(2);
-->
[!code-csharp[ConfigureSequence](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore7/ValueGenerationSample.cs?name=ConfigureSequence)]

## Migrations tooling improvements

EF7 includes two significant improvements when using the [EF Core Migrations command-line tools](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/index).

### UseSqlServer etc. accept null

It is very common to read a connection string from a configuration file and then pass that connection string to `UseSqlServer`, `UseSqlite`, or the equivalent method for another provider. For example:

```csharp
    services.AddDbContext<BloggingContext>(options =>
        options.UseSqlServer(Configuration.GetConnectionString("BloggingDatabase")));
```

> It is also common to pass a connection string [applying migrations](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also common to pass a connection string when [applying migrations](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying). For example:
```

```text
dotnet ef database update --connection "Server=(localdb)\mssqllocaldb;Database=MyAppDb"
```

Or when using a [Migrations bundle](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying#bundles).

```dotnetcli
./bundle.exe --connection "Server=(localdb)\mssqllocaldb;Database=MyAppDb"
```

> In this case, even though the connection string read from configuration will not be used, the application startup code will still attempt to read it from configuration and pass it to `UseSqlServer`. If the configuration is not available, then this results in passing null to `UseSqlServer`. In EF7, this is allowed, as long as the connection string is ultimately set later, such as by passing `--connection` to the command-line tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, even though the connection string read from configuration isn't used, the application startup code still attempts to read it from configuration and to pass it to `UseSqlServer`. If the configuration is not available, then this results in passing null to `UseSqlServer`. In EF7, this is allowed, as long as the connection string is ultimately set later, such as by passing `--connection` to the command-line tool.
```

> [!NOTE]
> This change has been made for `UseSqlServer` and `UseSqlite`. For other providers, contact the provider maintainer to make an equivalent change if it has not yet been done for that provider.

### Detect when tools are running

EF Core runs application code when the [`dotnet-ef`](xref:core/cli/dotnet) or [PowerShell](xref:core/cli/powershell) commands are being used. Sometimes it may be necessary to detect this situation to prevent inappropriate code being executed at design-time. For example, code that automatically applies migrations at startup should probably not do this at design-time. In EF7, this can be detected using the `EF.IsDesignTime` flag:

```csharp
if (!EF.IsDesignTime)
{
    await context.Database.MigrateAsync();
}
```

EF Core sets the `IsDesignTime` to `true` when application code is running on behalf of tools.

## Performance enhancements for proxies

EF Core supports dynamically generated proxies for [lazy-loading](xref:core/querying/related-data/lazy) and [change-tracking](xref:core/change-tracking/change-detection#change-tracking-proxies). EF7 contains two performance improvements when using these proxies:

> - The proxy types are now created lazily. This means that the initial model building time when using proxies can be massively faster with EF7 than it was with EF Core 6.0.

Reviewer: Massively :muscle::muscle::muscle:

- Proxies can now be used with compiled models.

Here are some performance results for model with 449 entity types, 6390 properties, and 720 relationships.

| Scenario                                                    | Method           |    Mean |    Error |   StdDev |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|--------:|---------:|---------:|
| EF Core 6.0 without proxies                                 | TimeToFirstQuery | 1.085 s | 0.0083 s | 0.0167 s |
| EF Core 6.0 with change-tracking proxies                    | TimeToFirstQuery | 13.01 s | 0.2040 s | 0.4110 s |
| EF Core 7.0 without proxies                                 | TimeToFirstQuery | 1.442 s | 0.0134 s | 0.0272 s |
| EF Core 7.0 with change-tracking proxies                    | TimeToFirstQuery | 1.446 s | 0.0160 s | 0.0323 s |
| EF Core 7.0 with change-tracking proxies and compiled model | TimeToFirstQuery | 0.162 s | 0.0062 s | 0.0125 s |

So, in this case, a model with change-tracking proxies can be ready to execute the first query 80 times faster in EF7 than was possible with EF Core 6.0.

> ## First-class Windows Forms Data Binding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## First-class Windows Forms data binding
```

The Windows Forms team have been making some [great improvements to the Visual Studio Designer experience](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/state-of-the-windows-forms-designer-for-net-applications/). This includes [new experiences for data binding](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/databinding-with-the-oop-windows-forms-designer/) that integrates well with EF Core.

In brief, the new experience provides Visual Studio U.I. for creating an <xref:System.Web.UI.WebControls.ObjectDataSource>:

![Choose Category data source type](../../get-started/_static/winforms-choose-category-type.png)

> This can then be bound to an EF Core `DBset` with some simple code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can then be bound to an EF Core `DbSet` with some simple code:
```
